Let's start with what's happening at that
hospital. Israeli forces have said that they
are engaged in intense fighting around Al shifa
hospital, the largest medical facility in gaza.
I know you say that the hospital sits on top
of a hamas command and control center. But,
of course, there are also patients, civilians
sheltering in that complex getting treatment.
How do you intend to go after hamas without
putting sick and injured civilians in that
hospital at more risk than they already are?
>> We've called to evacuate all the patients
from that hospital. In fact, 100 or so
have already been evacuated. I've called
for hospitals, and the French president
has sent a floating hospital ship. I've
asked emirates to send a field hospital.
They have. Other countries have done the
same. There's no reason why we just
can't take the patients out of there
instead of letting hamas use it as a command
center for terrorism with the rockets they
[9:03:40 AM]
terrorism with the rockets they fire against
Israel, for the terror tunnels they use to kill
Israeli civilians. Remember, Dana, let's keep
this in focus. Just imagine what would happen
if the United States were attacked viciously
by 20 9/11s, that's the proportion number,
50,000 Americans killed, 10,000 Americans
held hostage including babies, elderly, women,
children, 10,000 rockets falling on your cities.
That's the number of rockets that are falling all
the time on our cities, may fall during this
interview, as a matter of fact, and I'll have
to go to a shelter. What would America do? It
would take all its force and go after these
killers. What if these killers embed themselves
in hospitals, schools, U.N. Facilities? You'd do
everything in your power to get the civilians
out, which is what we're doing. We call them
to leave. You certainly wouldn't give immunity
top the terrorists. We're obviously treading
carefully when it comes to hospitals, but we're
also not going to give immunity to the terrorists.
[9:04:41 AM]
terrorists. So far, even though hamas has
tried to prevent the civilians from leaving,
hundreds of thousands have left, sometimes
having to go through hamas gun points and
gunfire and wants to keep them in harm's way.
>> Just to be clear, sir, Israel will aid,
help these civilians who are quite sick
and inside these hospitals come out,
not just in Al shifa, but there are
other hospitals where this is happening?
>> Yes. Yes, we're telling them to leave.
>> Telling them or helping them?
>> Helping them by creating safe
corridors. We have designated routes to a safe
zone south of gaza city where there's no fighting,
and we're telling them, go ahead, move. By
the way, 70,000 have moved. Three days ago,
I think 50,000 moved yesterday. More will move
today. We want all the civilians to be moved
out of harm's way. Hamas is doing everything in
their power to keep them in harm's way. Go ahead.
>> Do you believe there are
hostages below that hospital,
[9:05:41 AM]
Israeli or American hostages?
>> I'm not going to go into the intelligence
picture we have, but you know there's been
this vicious thing -- they take hostages --
imagine a baby is held hostage. Who takes a
baby hostage? I don't know if you have children,
Dana, I'm sure your camera crew has, we all have
children. What is this taking children hostage?
Threatening to kill them. This is savagery of
the highest order. We're doing everything in our
power to achieve two things. One, destroy hamas
because without it, none of us have a future.
It's not only our war. It's your war, too,
the battle of civilization against barberism. It
will pass to other places. Middle East will fall,
Europe is next, you'll be next. The first goal is
to destroy hamas and the second goal is to bring
back our hostages. We're trying to do both.
>> Those are completely understandable goals,
goals that
[9:06:41 AM]
understandable goals, goals that the United
States very much supports, understanding that
hamas is a barbaric terrorist organization.
Israel is not hamas, and the United States
also makes very clear that democracies have to
do better. The secretary of state, Tony blinken,
said that far too many Palestinian civilians
have been killed. What is your response to that?
>> I think any civilian loss is a tragedy and
the blame should be placed squarely on hamas
because it prevents them from leaving the
war zone, sometimes at gunpoint. It's fired
in the safe zone and the safe corridor that we
enacted. The other day to prevent Palestinians
from leaving harm's way, it puts rockets inside
the schools, hospitals. It has tunnels below
children's beds. That's what we're dealing with.
>> Absolutely, but because Israel isn't hamas,
is Israel doing everything possible to take that
into consideration? >> Yes, Dana, more than that.
[9:07:43 AM]
>> Yes, Dana, more than that. And more than that.
We're trying to minimize civilian casualties as
a result of our ground action, I think the number
of civilian carpalities is actually being reduced
because people are heeding our calls to leave
the area and defying hamas' attempt to keep them
there, and we'll do everything in our power to
do that. The one example I can give you is this.
These savages, they perpetrated the worst horrors
on Jews since the holocaust. The German chancellor
Schultz called them the new Nazis. Look at the
old Nazis. The allies were attacked by hitler so
they invaded France and then Germany. When they
did that, they went into the cities. They had to
fight the German army that was often embedded
in the cities, in civilian neighborhoods. Many
civilians were killed. Who is the blame laid onto?
Did they say the Nazis -- the allies are wrong,
the allies should stop fighting? They said,
look, use forces as judiciously as you can, but
[9:08:44 AM]
judiciously as you can, but don't give the
Nazis any refuge, don't feed the Nazis.
Which is what we're doing, using force in
the most judicious way, we have to defeat
these new Nazis, for our sake, your sake, too.
>> I want to ask about the hostages. Thousands
of families rallied this weekend right across the
street from where you are right now. They're very
frustrated they're not getting more information
from you on where their loved ones are,
believe your government is not doing enough
to get them back. What do you say to them?
>> It's understandable. They're under tremendous
distress, they're under torture. You can imagine
you have your father, your husband, your
son, your daughter taken by these savages --
>> Are you doing enough?
>> We're doing everything we
can around the clock, and I can't talk about it.
I personally met with hostage families -- families
of hostages several times. It tears your
heart out. Yes, we're doing everything and
[9:09:46 AM]
Yes, we're doing everything and
many things that I can't say here,
obviously. But this is one of our two
war goals. One is to destroy hamas,
and the second is to bring back our hostages.
We'll do everything we can. We think the entire
world should join us. Demand from the red
cross that it demand vips its to the hostages,
demand unconditional release of the hostages, say
this is barbarism that is unacceptable. I'd like
to see the U.N., the U.N. Secretary-general who
basically laid the blame on Israel, lay the blame
on these savages. Israel is fighting according
to international law. The Israeli army is doing
an exemplarily job trying to minimize civilian
casualties and maximize terrorist casualties.
We theed the international community not to give
support and moral support and legitimacy to sheer
evil that hamas represents. Support Israel.
Attack hamas. >> Prime minister Netanyahu, one
[9:10:47 AM]
>> Prime minister Netanyahu, one of the questions
right now is, when it comes to hostages,
is whether there can be a negotiation that works
towards a deal to free large groups of hostages
in exchange for ap sustained days' long pause in
fighting. Is that acceptable to you? If so, how
long of a pause would Israel be willing to allow?
>> I said we're going to pursue the battle to
destroy hamas to its end. But I also said the
only cease-fire that we would consider is one in
which we have our hostages released. That remains
true. It doesn't mean we can't give humanitarian
pause for a few hours in a place, a specific time
and place where we want to have a humanitarian
corridor and have the people leave safely. We've
done that, and hundreds of thousands have left
the fighting zone in that fashion.
>> How long of a pause would you
be willing to support?
>> So far we've dealt
with a few hours. If you're
talking about a cease-fire --
[9:11:48 AM]
cease-fire --
>> I'm not talking about a
cease-fire. A longer pause, days, for example.
>> That's not a pause. If you're talking about
stopping the fighting, that's exactly what hamas
wants. Hamas wants an end Ms series of pauses
that basically dissipate -- like the Germans after
normandy. Okay, let's have a cease-fire. Hold off,
let us replenish our supplies, get out of
our terror tunnels, let us rearm ourselves
and so on. Obviously we're not going to
do that. In order to have a cease-fire of
any -- a cease-fire in the entire area, that
will require the release of our hostages.
>> The U.S. Says you need an extended
pause in order to get the hostages out.
Do you not believe that as well?
>> We don't -- we don't disagree
with that, we need to get our hostages out.
>> The U.S. Also says any postwar plan for
gaza must include palestinian-led
governance and gaza unified with
[9:12:49 AM]
governance and gaza unified with the west bank
under the Palestinian authority. You appeared
to reject that yesterday. You said Israel will
not accept a, quote, civilian authority there
that educates its children to hate Israel.
I want to be clear. Are you saying Israel
would not accept giving control of gaza over
to the Palestinian authority after the war?
>> The first thing we have to do is destroy hamas,
because otherwise they'll do it again and again
and again and they've said so. We'll destroy
hamas. The second thing we have to understand
is there has to be an overriding and overreaching
Israeli military envelope. We've seen, any place
we leave, we exit, give it to some other force,
very soon terrorism resurfaces. The third thing we
have to understand is a civilian authority has to
cooperate on two comboels, one is to demilitarize
gaza, the second is to -- the Palestinian
authority has unfortunately failed on both
[9:13:52 AM]
has unfortunately failed on both counts.
They don't demilitarize the west bank.
We have to do it. We have to fight the
terrorists. They don't deradical lies,
teach children the hate red of Israel, they
pay for laefs, the more Jews they kill,
the more they pay. They refuse to this day,
36 days after this savagery, to condemn what
hamas did on October 7th.
>> If not the P.A. --
>> There has to be a reconstructed civilian
authority. There has to be something else.
Otherwise we're just falling into that same
rabbit hole. We're going to have the same
result. Remember the P.A. Was already in gaza.
When Israel left gaza, it handed the keys over
to P.A. Within a very short time hamas took
over, kicked them out. They're not willing to
fight hamas. They're still not willing to fight
hamas. You have to have some kind of authority,
civilian, Palestinian authority that
is willing to fight the terrorists and
[9:14:53 AM]
fight the terrorists and educating --
important LI must educate the children
for a fewer of peace, peace, cooperation,
prosperity. Cooperation with Israel,
not the annihilation of israelment so
far that hasn't happened. The burden of
proof is on the P.A. And they've failed every
single time. I say that regrettably. Honestly,
we have to be realistic about what we expect.
We can't fall back on formulas that failment
we have to succeed, to succeed to give gaza a
better future. Let's not bring it to a failed
past. Let's create a different reality there.
>> Prime minister Netanyahu, before I let you go,
I know you've been asked this several times,
but I have had multiple people inside Israel
reach out to me knowing that I was going to
interview you and say the one thing they want
to hear from you is that you take personal
responsibility for failing to prevent the
October 7th attacks and protecting your people. I
know you say the time for that will come after the
war. Why won't you take responsibility now?
>> I've already addressed that many times.
[9:15:54 AM]
many times. And I said this whole
question will be addressed after the war.
>> Why not now?
>> Well, did people ask Franklin Roosevelt
after pearl harbor that question? Did people ask
George Bush after the surprise attack of November
11th? It's a yes that needs to be asked.
>> The question has been asked.
>> I've said the one thing that is important
-- I've said we're going to answer all these
questions including I'm going to be asked tough
questions. I think right now what we have to do
is unite the country for one purpose, one purpose
alone. That's to achieve victory. That's what
we did. We formed a unity government, the
country is June nighted as never before.
That's what we have to pursue. What the people
expect me to do right now is two things. One,
achieve the victory and bring the hostages back.
Second, make sure that gaza never becomes --
>> Israelis are disappointed that you
won't take responsibility, you said?
>> I said I'll answer all the
questions required, including
[9:16:55 AM]
questions required, including the questions of
responsibility. There will be enough time for